# WisdomSite

Unless you're getting this post read to you by a screenreader, and probably even
so, you'll have noticed that this site has gotten a redesign. While it's not
exactly the Mona Lisa yet, I think the improvement is near an order of
magnitude. While the previous design was better than nothing (at least in my
eyes), it was certainly not a very pretty sight. I **was** originally actually
quite happy with it, against all odds, maybe due to Stockholm syndrome, but I
doubt that since as time went on, my distain for the site only grew, although
never too high. I had new ideas about pushing the site further, and adding
features such as a commenting system for the blog posts or even just the whole
site. These ideas didn't hold much footing though, given just how plain and bad
looking the site was, so eventually I decided to just do a full redesign, and along
the way work on some new server-side features.

## Principle

This site as it is is a bit interesting. The main inspiration for the redesign
was the Debian non-graphical installer, and during the process of writing the
CSS, tasksel (a specific component of the installer) was my main direct
reference.   

This visual style didn't come to me immediately, however (surpisingly enough). I
was working on another project, where I had to do a simple web panel for some
program, and where the UI had to be "utilitarian". My mind immediately jumped to
old PHP sites and specifically to the phpMyAdmin panel, yet through some weird irk,
I suddenly got the idea for an ncurses forms inspired design. In the end, even if
it didn't look modern or particularly pretty, I still liked it so much that I
straight up copied the CSS to my own site (of course still syncing my changes
back and forth between the two projects).

## More I guess

That's about the main thing. Shockingly, this blog hasn't suddenly become 1000x
times more interesting, even if I did for once have something to write about. I
still have plenty of ideas for this site, but the waving motivation I have as
well as all the other projects I "want" to work on mean I don't spend a ton of
time on this particular one. My MOOOD has also been inconsistent lately so
that's another extra funny thing to add on. The human brain is a disaster, and I
sometimes (albeit not wholeheartedly) just wish we got rid of electronics and
maybe society while we're at it. Blah blah, doom and gloom, if I don't finish
the potato game this year I will harm myself, in Minecraft. Digital footprint?
Haven't heard.

## Links links links

Maybe next time I will have enough motivation to actually write something, maybe
when I finally finish the ffi for Runtime (which, by they way, just got 1000x
more difficult because of a realization I had! I'm going to have to majorly
rework the intepreter!!! How fun!! I. am. going. to. do. something. bad)

- [A very interesting article I have NOT YET READ
  FULLY!!](https://www.linusakesson.net/programming/tty/) 
- [Absolutely
  hysterical](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10962290/how-to-find-the-index-of-current-object-in-range-based-for-loop)
- [A classic](https://www.gnu.org/fun/jokes/ed-msg.en.html)
